README.md, before:

# jQuery yacal
**Y**et **A**nother **Cal**endar plugin for jQuery.

## What is yacal?
It is a lightweight (~2.5KB)  **jQuery calendar plugin**, easy to configure and use. 
It comes with a default template, but you can tune up at your taste. 
Also supports some basic internationalization. 

The main idea behind yacal is getting a basic calendar DOM structure that you can use as you please. 
So, do whatever you whant with it. 

## What is not?
* It's **not a Date Picker** (but you can build one with it adding some lines of jQuery and Monent.js in your project)
* It's **not a Events Calendar** (again, you can do some basic jQuery stuff and get events calendar working too)

## Demo

Here is a **[Demo page](http://eduludi.github.io/jquery-yacal/demo.html)**

## Installation

**yacal** only requires [jQuery](http://jquery.com) (>= v1.8.x) as dependency. So, just include the script *after* the jQuery library (unless you are packaging scripts somehow else):


```html
<!-- uncompressed (development) --> 
<script src="/path/to/jquery.yacal.js"></script>

<!-- OR compressed (production) --> 
<script src="/path/to/jquery.yacal.min.js"></script>
```

> Note: yacal's javascripts and stylesheets are located in project's `dist` folder

## Usage

### With `data-*` attributes

```html
<div class="yacal" data-date="2020/10/26" data-near-months="2"></div>
```

### with Javascript

```html
<div id="calendar2000"></div>
```

```javascript
$('#calendar2000').yacal({
	date: '2000/1/1',
	nearmonths: 1,
});
```

### Default Configurations

```javascript
options = {
	date: new Date(),    // Sets the date. i.e: '2010/10/10', '2012/06' , default is now
	nearMonths: 0,       // How many months will be displayed to each side. Default is 0
	showWeekdays: true,  // Toggles the week days ('Su','Mo','Tu',etc). Default is true
	minDate: null,       // Sets the minimal date range (inclusive). For markup only. Default is null
	maxDate: null,       // Sets the maximal date range (inclusive). For markup only. Default is null
	firstDay: 0,         // Sets the first day of the week. Default is 0 (Sunday)
});

$('#aDefaultCalendar').yacal(options);
```

## CSS Styles

There is a CSS file in the project (`dist/jquery.yacal.css`) with some basic definitions for yacal's default template.

## Templates

In yacal is possible to configure the resulting output. The plugin provides access to all the templates used in the rendering. Just keep in mind that every month has this structure:

```html
<!-- pseudo-html -->
<month>
	<monthTitle/>
	<weeksdays/>
	<weekOpen />
		<day /> 
		<day /> 
		...
	<weekClose/>
	...
</month>
``` 

Default templates:

```javascript
$('.calendar').yacal({
	tpl: { 
		day: '<a class="day day<#weekday#><#weekend#><#today#><#selected#>" href="#<#timestamp#>"><#day#></a>',
		weekday: '<small class="weekday weekday<#weekdayNumber#>"><#weekdayName#></small>',
		weekOpen: '<div class="week week<#weekNumber#>">',
		weekClose: '</div>',
		month: '<div class="month <#monthNumber#>"><h4><#monthName#> <#year#></h4><#monthDays#></div>',
		nav: '<div class="nav">'+
						'<a class="yclPrev"><span><#prev#></span></a>'+ // class 'yclPrev' should stay
						'<a class="yclNext"><span><#next#></span></a>'+ // class 'yclNext' should stay
					'</div>'
		wrap: '<div class="wrap"></div>'
	}
});
```
> Note: in `nav` template, `yclPrev` and `yclNext` should stay within the `class` attributes of both nav links, as they are required to navigate between months. Is possible to add your own classes, but don't remove these original ones.

Example:

```javascript
$('.calendar').yacal({
	tpl: { 
		// Adds a strong wrapping the day and remove day's taggings (today, selected, etc)
		day: '<a class="day day<#weekday#>"><strong><#day#></strong></a>',
		// Simplifies the month header
		month: '<div class="month"><h2><#monthName#></h2><#monthDays#></div>',
		// adds new classes ('myPrev' and 'myNext') to nav links, but always keeping the originals
		nav: '<div class="nav">'+
						'<a class="yclPrev myPrev"><strong><#prev#></strong></a>'+ 
						'<a class="yclNext myNext"><strong><#next#></strong></a>'+
					'</div>'
	}
});
```

#### Templates Placeholders

The plugin provides several _placeholders_ for each template. These placeholders will return specific information from template. 

##### Day's placeholders

- `<#day#>`: day's number in the month, from `1` to `31`
- `<#weekday#>`: day's number in the week, from `0` to `6`
- `<#timestamp#>`: day's timestamp 
- `<#weekend#>`: returns 'weekend' if day is Sunday or Saturday
- `<#today#>`: returns 'today' if is today 
- `<#selected#>`: returns 'selected' if day the selected one

##### Weekday's placeholders

- `<#weekdayNumber#>`: day number in the week, from `0` to `6`
- `<#weekdayName#>`: day's name (i.e. 'Su','Mo',etc). It will depend on the i18n configurations under `tpl.weekdays`.

##### Week Open's placeholders

- `<#weekNumber#>`: week's number in the year

##### Week Close's placeholders

- (has no placeholders}

##### Month's placeholders

- `<#monthName#>`: Month's name (i.e. 'January','February',etc). It will depend on the i18n configurations under `tpl.months`.
- `<#year#>`: Year number (i.e. '1999','2010',etc).
- `<#monthDays#>`: here is where month's days will be placed.
- `<#monthNumber#>`: Month's number, form `0` to `11`

##### Nav paceholders
- `<#prev#>`: label for "prev" navigation link. It will depend on the i18n configurations under `tpl.prev`.
- `<#next#>`: label for "next" navigation link. It will depend on the i18n configurations under `tpl.next`.

## I18n

Defaults:

```javascript
$('.calendar').yacal({
	i18n: {
		weekdays: ['Su','Mo','Tu','We','Th','Fr','Sa'],
		months: ['Jan','Feb','Mar','Apr','May','Jun','Jul','Aug','Sep','Oct','Nov','Dec'],
		prev: 'prev', // prev month
		next: 'next', // next month
	}
});
```

Examples:

```javascript
$('.calendar').yacal({
	i18n: {
		// Spanish version
		weekdays: ['Do','Lu','Ma','Mi','Ju','Vi','Sa'],
		months: ['Ene','Feb','Mar','Abr','May','Jun','Jul','Ago','Sep','Oct','Nov','Dic'],
	}
});
```

```javascript
$('.calendar').yacal({
	i18n: {
		// English long months names
		months: ['January','February','Marz','April','May','June','July','August','September','October','November','December'],
	}
});
```

## ToDos and ideas

* Timezone support
* Configurations: 
	* First day of the week
	* Ideas?
* Move I18n and Localization to a separate file. 
* Bower support (do some testing)
* Navigation (prev/next year) ?

## Authors

- [Eduardo Ludi](http://github.com/eduludi)

- Some functions took from [Pickaday](https://github.com/dbushell/Pikaday)
(David Bushell @dbushell and Ramiro Rikkert @RamRik)

Commit message:

Adds week's 'selected' flag and data-time to templates.

README.md, after:

# jQuery yacal
**Y**et **A**nother **Cal**endar plugin for jQuery.

## What is yacal?
It is a lightweight (~3.5KB min / ~1.5kb gzip) **jQuery calendar plugin**, easy to configure and use. 
It comes with a default template, but you can tune up at your taste. 
Also supports some basic internationalization. 

The main idea behind yacal is getting a basic calendar DOM structure that you can use as you please. 
So, do whatever you whant with it. 

## What is not?
* It's **not a Date Picker** (but you can build one with it adding some lines of jQuery and Monent.js in your project)
* It's **not a Events Calendar** (again, you can do some basic jQuery stuff and get events calendar working too)

## Demo

Here is a **[Demo page](http://eduludi.github.io/jquery-yacal/demo.html)**

## Installation

**yacal** only requires [jQuery](http://jquery.com) (>= v1.8.x) as dependency. So, just include the script *after* the jQuery library (unless you are packaging scripts somehow else):


```html
<!-- uncompressed (~7.2kb, for development) --> 
<script src="/path/to/jquery.yacal.js"></script>

<!-- OR compressed (~3.5kb, for production) --> 
<script src="/path/to/jquery.yacal.min.js"></script>
```

> Note: yacal's javascripts and stylesheets are located in project's `dist` folder

## Usage

### With `data-*` attributes

```html
<div class="yacal" data-date="2020/10/26" data-near-months="2"></div>
```

### with Javascript

```html
<div id="calendar2000"></div>
```

```javascript
$('#calendar2000').yacal({
	date: '2000/1/1',
	nearmonths: 1,
});
```

### Default Configurations

```javascript
options = {
	date: new Date(),    // Sets the date. i.e: '2010/10/10', '2012/06' , default is now
	nearMonths: 0,       // How many months will be displayed to each side. Default is 0
	showWeekdays: true,  // Toggles the week days ('Su','Mo','Tu',etc). Default is true
	minDate: null,       // Sets the minimal date range (inclusive). For markup only. Default is null
	maxDate: null,       // Sets the maximal date range (inclusive). For markup only. Default is null
	//firstDay: 0,       // Sets the first day of the week. Default is 0 (Sunday) (TODO)
});

$('#aDefaultCalendar').yacal(options);
```

## CSS Styles

There is a CSS file in the project (`dist/jquery.yacal.css`) with some basic definitions for yacal's default template.

## Templates

In yacal is possible to configure the resulting output. The plugin provides access to all the templates used in the rendering. Just keep in mind that every month has this structure:

```html
<!-- pseudo-html -->
<month>
	<monthTitle/>
	<weeksdays/>
	<weekOpen />
		<day /> 
		<day /> 
		...
	<weekClose/>
	...
</month>
``` 

Default templates:

```javascript
$('.calendar').yacal({
	tpl: { 
		day: '<a class="day day<#weekday#><#weekend#><#today#><#selected#>" href="#<#timestamp#>"><#day#></a>',
		weekday: '<small class="weekday weekday<#weekdayNumber#>"><#weekdayName#></small>',
		weekOpen: '<div class="week week<#weekNumber#>">',
		weekClose: '</div>',
		month: '<div class="month <#monthNumber#>"><h4><#monthName#> <#year#></h4><#monthDays#></div>',
		nav: '<div class="yclNav">'+
						'<a class="prev"><span><#prev#></span></a>'+
						'<a class="pext"><span><#next#></span></a>'+
					'</div>'
		wrap: '<div class="wrap"></div>'
	}
});
```
> Note: in `nav` template, `yclNav`, `prev` and `next` should stay within the `class` attributes of both nav links and the `yclNav` wrapper, as they are required to navigate between months. Is possible to add your own classes, but don't remove these original ones.

Example:

```javascript
$('.calendar').yacal({
	tpl: { 
		// Adds a strong wrapping the day and remove day's taggings (today, selected, etc)
		day: '<a class="day day<#weekday#>"><strong><#day#></strong></a>',
		// Simplifies the month header
		month: '<div class="month"><h2><#monthName#></h2><#monthDays#></div>',
		// adds new classes ('myNav' and 'myNext'), but keeping the originals
		nav: '<div class="nav myNav">'+
						'<a class="prev"><strong><#prev#></strong></a>'+ 
						'<a class="next myNext"><strong><#next#></strong></a>'+
					'</div>'
	}
});
```

#### Templates Placeholders

The plugin provides several _placeholders_ for each template. These placeholders will return specific information from template. 

##### Day's placeholders

- `<#day#>`: day's number in the month, from `1` to `31`
- `<#weekday#>`: day's number in the week, from `0` to `6`
- `<#time#>`: day's timestamp 
- `<#weekend#>`: returns 'weekend' if day is Sunday or Saturday
- `<#today#>`: returns 'today' if is today 
- `<#selected#>`: returns 'selected' if day the selected one

##### Weekday's placeholders

- `<#weekdayNumber#>`: day number in the week, from `0` to `6`
- `<#weekdayName#>`: day's name (i.e. 'Su','Mo',etc). It will depend on the i18n configurations under `tpl.weekdays`.

##### Week Open's placeholders

- `<#week#>`: week's number in the year
- `<#weekTime#>`: week's timestamp (millisecons since January 1st, 1970)
- `<#weekSelected#>`: returns 'selected' if the selected date is in this week.

##### Week Close's placeholders

- (has no placeholders}

##### Month's placeholders

- `<#monthName#>`: Month's name (i.e. 'January','February',etc). It will depend on the i18n configurations under `tpl.months`.
- `<#year#>`: Year number (i.e. '1999','2010',etc).
- `<#monthDays#>`: here is where month's days will be placed.
- `<#monthNumber#>`: Month's number, form `0` to `11`

##### Nav paceholders

- `<#prev#>`: label for "prev" navigation link. It will depend on the i18n configurations under `tpl.prev`.
- `<#next#>`: label for "next" navigation link. It will depend on the i18n configurations under `tpl.next`.

## I18n

Defaults:

```javascript
$('.calendar').yacal({
	i18n: {
		weekdays: ['Su','Mo','Tu','We','Th','Fr','Sa'],
		months: ['Jan','Feb','Mar','Apr','May','Jun','Jul','Aug','Sep','Oct','Nov','Dec'],
		prev: 'prev', // prev month
		next: 'next', // next month
	}
});
```

Examples:

```javascript
$('.calendar').yacal({
	i18n: {
		// Spanish version
		weekdays: ['Do','Lu','Ma','Mi','Ju','Vi','Sa'],
		months: ['Ene','Feb','Mar','Abr','May','Jun','Jul','Ago','Sep','Oct','Nov','Dic'],
	}
});
```

```javascript
$('.calendar').yacal({
	i18n: {
		// English long months names
		months: ['January','February','Marz','April','May','June','July','August','September','October','November','December'],
	}
});
```

## ToDos and ideas

* Timezone support
* Configurations: 
	* First day of the week
	* Ideas?
* Move I18n and Localization to a separate file. 
* Bower support (do some testing)
* Navigation (prev/next year) ?

## Authors

- [Eduardo Ludi](http://github.com/eduludi)

- Some functions took from [Pickaday](https://github.com/dbushell/Pikaday)
(David Bushell @dbushell and Ramiro Rikkert @RamRik)
